Dear fellow
practitioners, when we study Buddhism, we
must learn this: what does it mean to
be a good person?
Helping others isn't enough to be considered a good person. It's only
a part of the character of a
good person. A good person
must possess virtue; there are two
aspects to their character: firstly, personal will and
organizational consciousness. Personal consciousness means the
individual's awareness of being a
good person. Secondly, organizational consciousness means
adhering to the rules of the
organization. In a family, isn't it an
organization? Any two or more people
constitute an organization. If
someone doesn't adhere to organizational consciousness,
sooner or later they will become a
bad person. Remember, adhere to organizational consciousness. In an
organization, there are superiors and subordinates. The
heart must show respect, but
we must also have equality. Equality means that when proposing
ideas, those in positions of authority must
respect the opinions of those below. Do you understand, dear practitioners?
In an
organization, organizational consciousness means respecting the
organization. Respecting this...  We must
respect the second rule of work,
which is hierarchy. Actually, it's
also part of the rules, is
n't it, esteemed colleagues? The rules of work
are essential; you can't rely on your own abilities
or something else and disregard the
organization. That's unacceptable in real life,
and that would land you in jail, wouldn't it?
For example, a form might need
three or four signatures, but sometimes you forget,
you disregard all the opinions of those around
you, and only give your own instructions.
That's wrong, esteemed colleagues, do you
understand? So,
these organizational rules encompass all aspects of
life and work. We
have daily life and communication,
so we must understand
each person. Just
understanding these two things is important: the rules and the individual.
Secondly, understanding the organizational rules.
Wherever they go, they will be welcomed, and
sooner or later,
they will become leaders. That's because they are
conscientious. Because they are
conscientious, they will have...  The overall understanding of
work is crucial, dear fellow
practitioners. Therefore,
organizational awareness is extremely important.
So, if you want to acquire
this organizational awareness, you only need to think about
your job title and responsibilities.
You must fulfill your job title and responsibilities correctly. You
must do your job properly, and you must also consider the
relationships you have that require
adherence to organizational rules.
Firstly, relationships at work, relationships
with other places, relationships with hierarchy—you only
need to think about this once. Remember,
anyone who lives without thinking is
truly not
considered an intellectual, right? Therefore,
we need rules in the family—
what are our rules towards our
parents, our spouse, our children? At work, what are
our rules? In
our interactions and relationships,
what are our rules? We must think about it—just
once, and the next time we will be able to
do it. Uncle Hoan
shared this with you, dear fellow practitioners, from childhood to adulthood.
Never being judged as having poor conduct,
average conduct, or good conduct is simply a matter of
good conduct because we can
think with it everywhere, and in relationships, we are never
criticized because
wherever we are, we fulfill our duties
fully, with full self-awareness. Therefore,
we live without ever being criticized,
becoming role models wherever we are
because we already have that awareness.
We will live serving with
that awareness, and we will have joy. But because
people live without that awareness,
we are passive in situations, and when we
are with friends, they always dominate us because
we lack awareness. Remember, dear fellow practitioners, the
mind is the master of all things. If our mind
has something to dwell on, then everyone
around us must serve us. Dear fellow
practitioners, those who haven't yet learned the wisdom of Prajnaparamita, when you
learn it, you will be very
happy. That is, the mind is just the mind;
it has no form. It is just
a sea of ​​mind, and this sea of ​​mind
will absorb whatever is great,
dear fellow practitioners.  It must be absorbed into the
mind; it must have the nature of a great mind
subduing a small mind. Do you understand, dear friends?
The mind manifests as merit. Therefore,
if your mind has nothing to anchor it,
you will wander aimlessly, becoming a
vagabond, drifting here and there, unable to accomplish
anything. Because you lack a foundation, a
foundation. People who take filial piety and righteousness as their foundation will
inevitably
succeed in small professions, and in large professions, they will achieve great
success. Their lives will be very peaceful.
But because your mind lacks a
foundation, it follows wherever it goes. That is, it has no
purpose. With
such a free-flowing mind, you will always be aimless,
going from place to place, dependent on this person,
going to place to
that person. That mind may
not even have a close friend because it
lacks a close, meaningful connection. Do you understand
this? It doesn't bring together
minds that are similar.
Why are the robbers so close?
Because they have two identical minds;
their minds are connected. But the
robber is...  The wind blows, the mind is filled with conflict and opposition,
so in the end, everything
turns against
each other. But if people use a benevolent mind as their foundation,
then everything
will come together. And whoever
has the greatest benevolent mind will be
at the top. That is, the mind itself pushes
upwards; it doesn't detach itself from physical appearance. It's not that
short or tall, fat or
white or black, will be in control, is it?
So it's not about physical appearance; what's
important is the mind. The
bigger and more open one's mind, the higher one rises. The
narrower and less knowledgeable one is, the
lower one falls, no matter how much support one receives. In
the end,
support is just a matter of the mind; the
big mind pays
attention to the small mind, but then that mind
fails and loses. Therefore,
here, the mind reflects the concept of "Complete Contemplation," meaning
we must have a sense of organization, which means
respecting others and
respecting ourselves within
our own families. We must have a sense of respect.
In a family organization, everyone
respects you based on the principle of "Complete Contemplation."
Even as the third child, you
are the most important person in the family;
everyone's attention is focused on you. That's the
mindset, not the
hierarchical order, even if you were born the third child. Therefore,
we must firmly grasp this point.
Do you understand, esteemed friends? From your own heart,
you will know whether people respect
you or look down on you. If you
are young in your family but have a
lot of money and look down on older people, then
naturally you
will be looked down upon elsewhere.
Cultivating that mindset of disrespect means that in an
organization, you will
never
succeed in anything you do. You will be
aimless and never become skilled at
anything because you will
never become skilled.
Your intellect will diminish because if you can't even
observe the hierarchy of responsibilities, how can you
observe your
expertise? Do you understand this point, esteemed friends?
Therefore, we  We must remember this:
individual consciousness and collective consciousness are equally
important. Therefore, if we, within an
organization, cannot do this,
we will never accomplish great things.
We will not succeed, whether
professionally or in management.
So,
remember this: Where we live, we
must consider our responsibilities,
our functions and duties, who we are
under, our obligations to whom, and who
we must ask for clarification.
Regardless of age, we must be like this to
receive blessings. Do you understand, esteemed fellow practitioners? This is
very flexible, esteemed fellow practitioners; it shifts from one
thing to another, not just
one thing.
Taking someone else's work is called
theft, stealing their reputation. Taking someone else's job is called
stealing their place, stealing their reputation,
stealing their place—what else could it be?
That will cause us to lose many
things. It's not considered a good
deed. It's not a
good deed because it doesn't produce a
completely good karmic reward for ourselves.  Even though we are born,
we still have to bear the burden of loss and
suffering. Do you understand this, dear fellow practitioners?
Therefore, you must
think about
your function, duty, and responsibility. If you
fulfill your function, duty, and
responsibility completely, then you will
progress in the heart of God.
Always thinking this way, I never
speak ill of anyone. What is my duty? To what extent is
my function? That belongs
to me. If I want to contribute,
I propose an opinion, right? That means if
we have an opinion, and someone
explains it, and it comes to us,
we must examine it, recognize it as the
truth, and not suppress it or take their opinion. Do you understand,
dear practitioners? You must
not reject someone's opinion.
If it is something, we must bring it
up to be resolved for them. If
they are not satisfied, right? If everything
is organized, we will be left out, wandering aimlessly from
place to place,
never getting into any
organization.  The suffering falls upon
those who are aimless, those who
lack any basic foundation. Firstly,
one must be able to make their own living, to
achieve success on their own. That's
different from those who join various organizations, moving from one place to another,
unable to be
independent. This shows a lack of organizational awareness. Do you
understand? So, the benefit is that if
we have organizational awareness,
our family will be stable, not divided, and there wo
n't be much conflict.
That's merit, my dear fellow practitioners.
Therefore, we must have good organizational awareness, and then we
will benefit. Everything
is merit. If we
lack organizational awareness, we
harm ourselves and our loved ones,
our daughters in the future. Therefore,
organizational awareness must be truly good. From
the beginning, we must contemplate and think about
it in the Eightfold Path, my dear fellow practitioners: right
view, right thought, then right speech, right
action. If we have
right view, it means that when we present a
matter, we must think about it first, and
then we...  I just said that, my esteemed fellow practitioners, do you
understand? Usually, people speak based on feelings,
preferences, and actions. That is, they don't apply critical
thinking, they don't follow the Eightfold Path.
The Eightfold Path
is a wonderful path, but they
don't follow it that way, they live aimlessly, outside the
Dharma, right? Therefore, with the mind's insightful observation,
just by looking at a person and seeing their
situation, you can immediately recognize them. Their understanding of the
Dharma is weak, their awareness is weak, their
merit is weak, their blessings are few. Therefore, you
can't pick those people up to do
beneficial work or care for others
because
their accumulated blessings are too little. Now, it's
difficult for them to
develop their blessings; it's very
difficult because of their lack of awareness. My esteemed fellow practitioners,
do you understand? Therefore, in Buddhism,
we don't evaluate professional skills but rather the
mind and awareness. If they have a good mind and
awareness, and the right environment, they
develop very quickly. The environment is something
we create. As for them, they only need
their existing resources.  What about
their sense of organization and their devotion to the Three Jewels?
We only need to cultivate those two things for a
while, and they will be able to accomplish everything
we desire. Do you understand this point, dear friends?
Because merit is generated very
quickly. As for those with
very poor organizational awareness, we know
their merit is low, so their work is
unsuccessful. Even their interactions
fail; they can't solve anything. They
fail everywhere they go
because their merit is too low.
They are currently destroying their own merit.
Therefore, they don't benefit
us at all. We heard our master
teaching about a monk
whose merit was low. He kept begging, and every day the
whole group would starve;
no one offered him alms. But on other days, wherever
he went, there were
plenty of offerings; everyone could
choose what they wanted to receive. That's because of
their past merit. We can judge someone based on that. We can
tell who is disorganized.  If
someone
lacks organizational skills and good fortune, their good fortune will be
diminished. Because of this lack of organization,
everything will be hindered.
But if someone respects organization, everything they do will go smoothly.
That's very desirable. Therefore, people always
choose people with
high organizational skills and a compassionate heart.
Wherever they go, they will
succeed, and their work will be
beneficial and good. Do you understand this point, dear fellow practitioners? The Mind-Bound Contemplation
says: don't just think of an action as a good deed; you
must examine whether your heart is good or
not. Don't assume that everything will be good just because your heart is
good. If your heart isn't good,
sooner or later everything will bring bad consequences and little
benefit. It's like
bait for a fish; the fish smells the
bait, it thinks it's good and
delicious, but when it bites, it dies. The
first good deed
is giving it to people; it's like bait for a
fish, but...  Creating a
karmic cycle of disharmony and discord is the
ultimate goal of this matter.
This is only the first step; it
leads to the final outcome, like the
bait on the outside and the
hook on the inside. Therefore, a seemingly good deed can
lead to
suffering, so it cannot be
called a good deed. We
must cultivate a perfectly good mind, think with a perfectly good mind, and only
then can we
act. This organizational consciousness
allows us to have a perfectly
good mind. For example, the practice of mindfulness
guides practitioners to contemplate the merits
of their teachers and then
to themselves, all based on the
framework of organizational consciousness. The organization—who the
teachers are, who we are—is simply a
reflection of organizational consciousness.
Everything stems from the organization. Therefore,
we must have
knowledge of the organization to know whether
we are being good or evil.
We can never simply share our thoughts.
The mind of the Han family, living in harmony,
never experiences
division; living in an organization, there is
no division. Therefore, the mind of the Lord, the
Han family, already possesses the essence of harmony. That's how it is.
Therefore, cherishing the Dharma of harmony, respecting the
Dharma of harmony, and promoting the Dharma of
harmony, means that whatever we do will never
cause suffering to
others. If we lack
order and respect for the organization,
every action will bring suffering to
ourselves and others; it is the law of cause and effect, dear
fellow practitioners. Therefore, the mind of the Han
family hopes that through this, we
will reflect on the organization we are
participating in, so that we can form
knowledge about the organization, and we will have
organizational consciousness. And if we have organizational consciousness, we
will know how to cultivate a complete mind. Dear fellow
practitioners, do you understand? Otherwise,
we might become
disrespectful to those above us, clinging to many things, becoming
ungrateful, and forgetting the efforts of those who taught us. Right? There are
many negative things that arise when we don't cultivate a mindful mind.
lots and lots and lots
[music]
[Applause]
okay?